hello and welcome in today's video I
will present ten of the most common
trading mistakes and how you can avoid
them but before that I want to make
something clear everyone makes mistakes
no one is perfect and that's totally
fine it's just important that you
learned from your mistakes and try to
avoid them in the future I'm pretty sure
that you are doing at least one of the
following mistakes so listen up if you
manage to avoid all of the following
mistakes I guarantee you that you will
become a much better trader let's get
started the first very common trading
mistake is fear of missing out were also
known as FOMO the English Oxford
Dictionary defines FOMO as anxiety that
an exciting or interesting event may
currently be happening elsewhere the
trade your suffering on the FOMO thinks
that everyone is making tons of money
and he's the only one missing out due to
this the trader often thinks that
everything is a good trade he thinks if
he doesn't enter a position now he will
miss out on all the profits later on
this often leads to a lot of random
trading on random assets due to random
reasons if you often are anxious about
missing out I recommend staying away
from chat rooms and other social trading
platforms usually there isn't a lot of
really valuable information on these
platforms
anyways most of it is just meaningless
noise FOMO often leads to another common
training mistake namely over trading
especially newer traders make this
mistake all the time people that over
trade often think that everything is a
good setup and therefore they trade away
too often it is important to understand
that more trades does not equal more
money even though this might sound
counterintuitive it is true many
successful traders have made most of
their profits from a few very good
trades so focus on the best setups only
and if you're bored to stay away from
the markets otherwise you will just
trade out of boredom and not because the
setups actually are good now let us move
on to mistake 3 mistake 3 is being
stubborn and not admitting losses
somehow one of the hardest sentences to
say for traders is I am wrong most
traders just don't want to admit that
they're wrong but sadly it is necessary
to do so if you want to become a
successful trader as I said before no
one is perfect and therefore no one will
win 100% in trading you will always have
losses but it's so damn important to
keep these losses small if you win 60%
of the time but your losses are always
double the size of your profits you
won't make money I'm not saying that you
should cut losses as soon as the trade
goes against you but I am saying if it's
painfully obvious that you're losing
then just cut the loss don't try to
rationalize why your trade could still
work in your favor
just cut the loss admitting being wrong
is one of the most important skills that
every successful trader has I always
recommend setting a max loss goal before
you enter a trade and as soon as that
goal is reached
just cut the loss you could also use
automated orders like stop losses the
next trading mistake goes hand and hand
with the previous one the fourth
trailing mistake is not taking profits
the common saying is cut your losses
short and let the winners run even
though this might sound good on paper
it isn't always applicable to trading it
is a good idea to cut your losses short
but you shouldn't always let your
winners run it's very important to take
profits when you have them otherwise
they will turn into losers if you take
off a winning position it's a guaranteed
profit but if you wait the position can
still turn around and become a loser
so taking profits actually increases
your probability of profit my tip here
is the same as on the previous mistake
just set profit targets and stick to
them as soon as your profit target is
reached just take off the position once
again you can use automated orders to do
this the next and fifth mistake is
probably one of the biggest mistakes of
them all
it is not educating yourself trying to
trade without educating yourself
beforehand is just insane no one is born
as a perfect trader just like no one is
born as a perfect surgeon or a perfect
pilot before becoming a pilot or a
surgeon or anything else you need to go
to school for you you need to study and
educate yourself why should this be any
different with trading why should anyone
be a profitable trader without any
education and preparation so please do
yourself the favor and educate yourself
before risking any hard-earned money
otherwise you will lose it all the next
the wild spread trading mistake is not
having a trading plan or not sticking to
it
having a trading plan is essential for
your success as a trader without the
trading plan you don't really know what
you're doing you should always have a
concrete trading plan before opening any
positions
in your trading plan you should always
have your profit target max loss and
more but just as important as having of
trading plan is actually sticking to it
if you're not sticking to your trading
plan you might just as well trade
without one you should never listen to
your emotions and deviate from your plan
just stick to it it's there to help you
let's get into the mistake number seven
mistake number seven is having no risk
management risk management is a very
important part of trading you should
always define your risk and your reward
before opening a position in stock
trading the risk to reward ratio is a
very important factor as well you
shouldn't be risking 10 to make one
ideally your risk should be smaller than
your reward there are many different
risk management techniques but I won't
go into detail in this video just make
sure that you're familiar with risk
management another very common trading
mistake is having the wrong position
size or going in too big barely any one
trades too small but countless people
trade too big this is because most
people get blinded by the potential
returns most people think of the
potential reward and don't even consider
the risk if you increase your position
size your potential reward increases as
well but so does your risk the saying go
big or go home does definitely not apply
to trading and if anyone tries to tell
you otherwise he has no idea what he's
talking about
you should never risk more than 10
percent on one trade ideally you should
even risk less than 5 percent I want to
show this with a brief example let's say
your current has $10,000 in it stock XYZ
is currently trading for $100 you
identify a support level at $90
therefore
$90.00 can act as your max risk level if
X Y Z's price drops below $90 you will
cut losses this means that your risk per
share would be $10 s you don't want to
risk more than 10% on one trade you can
trade more than 100 shares of XYZ stock
otherwise you will be risking more than
10% but like I said before ideally you
should be risking even less but please
whatever you do never ever risk all of
your capital at once once in a while you
will have a losing trade and if you risk
all of your money at once you will lose
all of your money at once so never risk
this disaster the second last mistake is
getting emotional when trading emotions
and trading don't go along trading
requires rational thinking and emotions
really can influence your trading
negatively so always try to act
mechanically and think rationally when
hard-earned money is on the line this
can be extremely difficult
therefore it's even more important to
have a trading plan in place before you
enter a trade furthermore you can use
alerts and automated orders to take more
emotions out of your trading the final
trading mistake for this video is not
tracking your progress keeping a trading
diary is very important if you're not
tracking your mistakes you can't avoid
them in the future therefore it's very
important to track all your winning and
even more importantly all your losing
trades you should then ask some
questions what went right and what
didn't what could you have done better
and what couldn't have done better why
were the losing trades losers and why
were the winning trades winners
of these questions can be answered by
keeping a trading journal and by
tracking your trades in conclusion the
trading journal allows you to learn from
your mistakes and avoid them in the
future that's it for this video
have you made any of these mistakes
please let me know in the comment
section below
and hopefully this video will help you
avoid these mistakes in the future
thanks for watching if you enjoy content
like this make sure to subscribe